When working with extensions, there's one important detail to consider.
Usually, the JUnit Jupiter engine works with one instance of an extension class.
However,
there is no guarantee when the engine is going to instantiate
the extension and how long it will keep it.
For this reason, extensions have to be stateless.
If you want to keep some sort of a state from one
invocation of an extension to the next,
it has to be written to a stored object that is
provided by the extension context.
This store is a key value structure, and to use it,
you have to provide a namespace.
You can use either the global namespace or create one,
but the context will return the store associated with that
namespace to prevent collisions between the different extensions
that could be used in the same method or class.
Now one thing you need to know is that there's a hierarchy of extension context.
There's a context at the method level, at the class level,
and at the engine level.
A store is created for each of these contexts,
and each store has a reference to its parent.
For example,
the store of a test method has a reference to the store of
the class that contains that method.
This way, a store can be queried for a value.
And if it is not found in that store,
the parents will be queried for a value with the
same key and in the same namespace.
This doesn't happen when you write a value.
The value is written at just one level.
So the store is a key value structure.
It uses a map to hold its values, but it's not a map itself.
It has methods to retrieve values like get or getOrComputeIfAbsent to
compute the default value if none is found in the current context or one of
its parents and methods to save and remove values,
like put and remove.
So let's implement an extension using the stores and
the interface ExecutionCondition.
In the previous clip,
we implemented an extension to handle exceptions of
type IllegalArgumentException.
Let's say that if a method throws this exception,
we'll want to disable the rest of the method from the test class.
So what we can do is save the exception in the context
store and disable the execution of the current test if
there's an exception in the store.
I could modify the exception handler extension to also implement
execution condition and have all this logic in one class.
But maybe it's better to put the conditional logic in another class.
So I'm going to create a class, ExtensionUtils,
and I'm going to add a constant,
the namespace I'll use to save the exception in the store.
Notice that Namespace is an inner class of ExtensionContext,
and it has a static method to create a Namespace object.
This method takes a variable number of arguments of type object.
Here, for example, I'm using some strings to create the namespace,
but you can use whatever you want.
However, the order of the objects is important.
Inside the namespace, these objects are stored in an array list.
And to check if two namespaces are the same,
the equals method of the array list is used.
Also, I'm going to add the key to save the exception in the store.
Now in the ExceptionHandler extension,
if the exception is an instance of IllegalArgumentException,
I'm going to save the exception in the store.
Great.
Now I'm going to create another extension,
DisableTestsIfExceptionThrownExtension.
All right,
this class implements ExecutionCondition and overwrites
the method evaluateExecutionCondition, which takes the ExtensionContext,
and it must return an object of type ConditionEvaluationResult.
This class has two methods to create results,
one for enabled results and another one for disabled results.
By default, I'm going to return and enabled result.
But I'll try to get from the store the exception using the
namespace and the key from the class ExtensionUtils.
And if it is different from null,
I'm going to return a disabled result with the reason,
an exception was thrown and the exception message.
Now I need to add this new extension to the annotation TestWithErrorHandler.
And if I run the Test class, it didn't work.
The exception was thrown, but all the tests were executed.
To understand what's wrong in the conditional extension,
I'm going to print the context object.
Let's run the test again.
We can see the types of the context objects, MethodExtensionContext.
And by looking at the hexadecimal representation of their hash code,
we can say that they are different objects,
and that's the reason of the error.
We are storing the exception in the context of the method changeAmount.
But this context and its store don't apply to the other methods.
Remember, the contexts are hierarchical.
So what we need to do is store the exception in a context higher in
the hierarchy so all the methods can access it.
If we store the exception in the class context, it would work for this example.
But what if there's a test inside an inner class, like this?
It would work for all the tests inside the inner class,
but not for the tests of the outer class because they
operate in a different context.
So in this case, our best bet is to use the engineContext,
the highest context in the hierarchy.
In ExtensionUtils, I'm going to add a new method.
This method is going to get the root context, the engineContext.
There's also a getParam method, but in this case,
we'll return the class context.
This way, in the ExceptionHandlerExtension class,
I just have to get the engineContext and use it here to get
its store and put the exception there.
I don't need to change the code of the conditional
extension because when searching for values,
the store will query their parents to find the value if needed.
And if I run the class,
you can see that after the execution of the changeAmount test, the rest of the tests were not executed.